Well we already covered quite some things.
We learned how to add routes and how to load them ever by typing it manually into our navigation bar
here or by clicking some links.
We also learned how to store these links or what.
Now if we want to load a route programmatically so we don't have a link to user can click but we've
finished some operation or the user clicked some button and then we wanted to trigger the navigation
from our typescript code.
We can't do it as let's say in our home component here.
I add a new button to it and on this button I simply want to load the server the service page.
So here now we could try adding router link but let's say I want to have a click listener and execute
some method because we do something else and just navigating there I will also add some skills as classes
to make this battle look lies.
So honest click listener.
I want to execute on load servers and here this Methot now gets implemented in the home component.
And it load service.
I now still again I simply want to navigate to the service component so we could for this example of
course also use a router link but let's say here we have some complex calculation or we reach out to
our back and we store something on the server.
And once we are done.
Now we want to navigate away to do so we somehow need to get access to our router.
This Ingela router because we need to tell it pait please navigate somewhere else.
The nice thing is we can and checked this router.
So let's find it to a private property maybe we name it router and this will be of type router router
needs to be imported from an angle or router which is injected we can use the router here.
So this router and then we get a couple of methods or one of the most important ones being navigate
now navigate takes an argument which allows us to guess what navigate to a new route and your route
is defined as an array of The Single or the different elements of this new path.
So just like here an app component where I explain this alternative way of finding route link binding
it to an array where you could have users for the users part of your POV and then another element for
maybe something for the something part of your POV.
Now you always have to pass such an array when using the navigate method but then you're still the first
element is simply the first element or the first segment of your path.
So if let's say we want to go to slash service here we could add slash service here and ask for it.
This is now an absolute lbf.
You could have a relative one but here you have to control to what this should be relative to.
And I will come back to this.
So for now let's make it an absolute path your.
And once we did this let's check our page here.
Click this button and we go to servers.
So this is now programmatically routing to a different page.
Still it doesn't we load our page it does the same as if we clicked a router link.
But with this router navigate method we are able to trigger this programmatically So trigger does in
our code.